- Sup, you beautiful bastards?
Hope you're having a fantastic Thursday.
Welcome back to the Philip DeFranco Show.
Buckle up, hit that Like button,
and let's just jump into it.
And the main thing we're
gonna be talking about today
is the coronavirus and
everything it's been touching,
but first specifically, I know that
there are some people panicking,
but please, please,
please check the sources
on information that you're
getting around the coronavirus.
I'm not saying true factual
information cannot come
from influencers or Joe
Blow on Twitter, Facebook,
or whatever, but hold on a beat,
and see if the experts are
actually saying that as well.
For example, one post and
claim that I saw really blow up
came from Brother Nature,
massive influencer,
also in no way the only
one sharing this stuff.
Right, a lot of these claims
are said to be attributed
to a member of the
Stanford Hospital Board,
or a doctor in Japan
or something like that,
and among the claims made here,
"everyone should ensure your mouth
"and throat are moist, never dry.
"Take a few sips of water
every 15 minutes at least.
"Why?
"Even if the virus gets into your mouth,
"drinking enough water
or other liquids will
"wash them down through your
throat into the stomach.
"Once there, your stomach
acid will kill all the virus.
"If you don't drink enough
water more regularly,
"the virus can enter your
windpipe and into the lungs.
"That's very dangerous."
And while I think there
are plenty of other reasons
to make sure that you're drinking water,
this claim is false.
This has been debunked, but once again,
I'm not saying don't drink water.
You should still drink water.
It's just in general good for your health
and during any infection.
But the specific claims that
it's making here, not true.
Also, the document claims
"drinking warm water is effective
"for all viruses.
"Try not to drink liquids with ice."
That's not a thing.
Also, in this fun little
viral post of misinformation
there's the claim "take a deep
breath and hold your breath
"for more than 10 seconds.
"If you complete it
successfully without coughing,
"without discomfort, stiffness,
or tightness, et cetera,
"it proves there is no
fibrosis in the lungs,
"basically indicates no infection."
No, that is not true.
As Dr. Loren Rauch, a doctor
at Antelope Valley Hospital
in Los Angeles who has a
master's degree in epidemiology,
says, "that's not true.
"That can check if you are anxious
"or have respiratory compromise,
"but not tell if you have coronavirus."
Because once again, we've
hit on this a number of times
since we first started covering this,
you may not have symptoms, and
while some may look at that
claim and go, oh, what's the harm,
someone's gonna hold their
breath for 10 seconds,
and do what?
Well, one, it's a weird stance
to defend spreading misinformation,
and also two, you might have someone that
incorrectly believes that they
do not have the coronavirus.
All right, so, maybe that
leads to further spread.
And here's the thing, I mean,
I'm not gonna villainize
all the people sharing this
and all the celebrities sharing this.
People are panicking, people want to help,
mistakes are going to get made.
But where I do have issues with
people are when those people
get called out, or
actually in a very nice way
get shown the truth, leave up
their incredibly viral posts,
like was the case with Brother Nature.
And ultimately, that's where
we are with this right now.
And so, while often it's not the case,
because the big scary claim
usually gets way further
than the fact check after,
but I really hope that
shining a light on this can
gain traction in its own way,
but maybe even more importantly,
get to the people that are,
even if they have good intentions,
spreading misinformation about
a really troubling issue,
because from the moment that
I started filming this video
to the moment that I'm
ending filming this video,
that post has continued to go viral.
So, there's that, then the next
thing we have to talk about
with the coronavirus was
Trump addressing the nation
last night, because the way he used words
did not necessarily
reflect an exact reality,
and at times were the exact
opposite of what he said.
So, first up, Trump hit us
with the Europe travel ban.
- To keep new cases from
entering our shores,
we will be suspending
all travel from Europe
to the United States for the next 30 days.
The new rules will go into
effect Friday at midnight.
These restrictions will be adjusted
subject to conditions on the ground.
There will be exemptions for Americans
who have undergone appropriate screenings,
and these prohibitions will not only apply
to the tremendous amount
of trade and cargo,
but various other things
as we get approval.
These restrictions will also not apply
to the United Kingdom.
- Right, so, just from that clip,
there are two things that
we have to talk about.
All right, so, one, Trump
says we're suspending
all travel from Europe and
then he mentions exemptions
for Americans who have undergone
appropriate screenings,
but there is no other
information connected to that.
What are these screenings?
Where are these screenings?
Right, and it's really not
until about an hour later
where the Department of
Homeland Security releases
a statement that we get a much clearer,
more understandable picture, saying,
"today President Donald J. Trump signed
"a Presidential Proclamation
which suspends the entry
"of most foreign nationals
who have been in certain
"European countries at any
point during the 14 days
"prior to their scheduled
arrival to the United States."
And then adding, "this does
not apply to legal permanent
"residents, generally
immediate family members
"of U.S. citizens, and other individuals
"who are identified in the proclamation."
So, the travel ban actually
only affects foreign nationals
who have been through the listed countries
14 days prior to trying to
fly to the United States.
There's no mention of
appropriate screenings in this.
There was also no mention
of it Wednesday night
when the White House listed
all of the exempted groups.
Right, that also didn't
include anything about
mandatory screening or testing.
But the problem here
is that it still caused
a lot of confusion and chaos.
For a little while, you had
people that were getting
on flights or had flights
scheduled to go to Europe going,
okay, wait, wait, am I not
gonna be able to come back?
Also, abroad, according
to reports in Europe
people just started buying up tickets,
and the prices were skyrocketing,
some reports saying that travelers
were paying up to $20,000.
And then the second thing
we need to talk about
from this statement is
the part where Trump says,
quote, "these prohibitions
will not only apply
"to the tremendous amount
of trade and cargo,"
well, it turns out that
the president meant to say
the exact opposite of that.
Trump tweeting later after his address,
"please remember very
important for all countries
"and businesses to know
that trade will in no way
"be affected by the 30 day restriction
"on travel from Europe.
"The restriction stops people, not goods."
So, it appears that
maybe the answer to why
you would say the exact
opposite of what you meant
is that possibly he was supposed to say
"and these prohibitions will not apply
"to the tremendous amount
of trade and cargo."
Also, in the president's
speech, he talked about
the health insurance industry.
- Earlier this week,
I met with the leaders
of health insurance industry,
who have agreed to waive all co-payments
for coronavirus treatments,
extend insurance coverage
to these treatments,
and to prevent surprise medical billing.
- But what we're seeing now from reports
after this announcement is
no, that's not the case,
with reports saying that
insurers have agreed
to waiving co-payments for
testing, but not treatment.
Right, so, those were kind
of the main three things
that needed to be cleared up.
We also saw Trump talk
about economic measures,
once again, calling on
Congress to provide relief
to workers affected by the virus,
including payroll tax cuts.
But regarding other economic
measures, he also said--
- To ensure that working
Americans impacted by the virus
can stay home without fear
of financial hardship,
I will soon be taking emergency action
which is unprecedented to
provide financial relief.
This will be targeted
for workers who are ill,
quarantined, or caring for
others, due to coronavirus.
I will be asking Congress
to take legislative action
to extend this relief.
- And as far as emergency
action, it appears that
he's now instructed the
Small Business Administration
to provide loans in affected
states and territories.
Notably around this, Trump
has also asked Congress
to increase the funding for
that assistance by $50 billion,
also saying that he's instructed
the Treasury Department
to defer tax payments
for certain businesses and
people affected by the virus,
adding that that move will
put $200 billion of liquidity
back into the economy.
And that was essentially it.
Now, as far as the reaction to this,
I mean, one, the timing
around this was horrible,
and I'm not placing that
on Trump or something.
What I mean is that there
was a ton of coronavirus news
just within a 30 minute block.
Within that 30 minute
window, you had the president
of the United States, who
once again, just two days ago
was still kind of going, hey,
guys, the flu is way worse,
announcing a month long
European travel ban,
Tom Hanks came out saying
that he and Rita Wilson
had tested positive for coronavirus,
and that the NBA was
suspending their entire season.
We learned today while
filming that the NHL, MLS,
and the ATP have all
suspended their seasons
and the NCAA has canceled March Madness,
and also not a sport,
but a major announcement,
we're seeing the news that now
Disneyland is going to close.
Now, as far as some of the
more specific reactions,
you, one, had people confused
why the United Kingdom
was not included in this ban.
Right, it's not like they've
dodged the coronavirus.
There have been at least
459 known cases there.
Also, as far as the
European Union's reaction,
they condemned the travel suspension,
saying the decision
"was taken unilaterally
"and without consultation."
People also saying that
there probably was a time
where travel suspension would have helped,
but the coronavirus is already here.
Right, it appears to be
spreading domestically now.
Also, as far as the U.S. Congress, right,
what's happening with legislation,
right after Trump's address
we saw House Democrats
unveil a sweeping
coronavirus relief package
that consisted of a number of measures,
including a national
paid sick leave program,
free coronavirus testing,
food security assistance,
and expanded unemployment benefits.
But very notably, not
included in those measures
was a payroll tax cut, with
both House and Senate Democrats
arguing that payroll tax cuts,
which would lower the amount
of certain federal taxes
that are taken out of
each worker's paycheck,
do not help those hit the hardest.
Right, that's because the
tax relief is largely aimed
at helping those who have more money.
And around this proposal we
saw Nancy Pelosi announce
that the house is expected
to vote on the legislation
later today before they
leave for a 10 day recess.
But, according to reports, Pelosi is still
hashing out the details with
the Trump administration
and not everyone is onboard.
In fact, we saw House
minority leader Kevin McCarthy
taking to Twitter this morning
to slam Pelosi and the bill,
saying "the legislation that
Speaker Pelosi introduced
"at 11:00 p.m. last night
written by her staff
"and her staff alone and plans to vote on
"just 12 hours later is not
only completely partisan,
"it is unworkable."
We also saw Republican
and Senate majority leader
Mitch McConnell slam the House bill,
calling it "an ideological wish list,"
and adding "I hope Senate
Democrats will not block
"potential requests from
our colleagues today
"to pass smaller, non-controversial
"pieces of legislation today."
And while some Republican
senators have expressed support
for at least parts of the bill,
it's unclear what the Senate will do here.
Right, do they consider this package?
Do they propose one of their own?
But what we have seen
so far at least is that
this morning McConnell
announced the Senate
will actually cancel its
plans for the scheduled recess
next week and will
instead work through it.
Also, to complicate matters even more,
we're now seeing news about
the first case on Capitol Hill.
Last night, Senator Maria
Cantwell's office confirmed
that one of her staffers tested positive
for the coronavirus.
With this, Cantwell announcing
that she was closing
her D.C. office to have it deep cleaned.
Following that, we also
saw other senators closing
their D.C. offices as well.
Right, so, this potentially, a big deal.
There's a question of
how widespread is this.
You have thousands of people
who work in the Capitol,
obviously, that including
senators and Congress members.
So, obviously we're keeping
our eyes glued there.
Also, we should talk about
the economy right now.
The stock market has
been taking a beating.
I mean, hell, just after the Trump speech,
Dow futures fell by 1,100 points,
and with this, we've seen
the stock market enter
what they call bear market territory,
which is just a fancy way of saying that
they've dropped 20% or
more after recent highs,
and in fact, this morning
those drops were so big
that investors actually had to
stop trading for 15 minutes,
which this is the second time this week
they've had to do that.
All right, and they call
this a circuit breaker.
These breaks are kind of meant
to help investors slow down,
catch their breath, stop freaking out,
really think about what they're doing.
But it's now actually being reported that
the Dow is seeing its
worse day since 1987,
right, and notably, this coming
after Trump yesterday told people--
- This is not a financial crisis.
This is just a temporary moment of time
that we will overcome
together as a nation,
and as a world.
- Also, as far as some
of the companies taking
the biggest hits right now, I mean,
you just look at major travel businesses,
like cruise lines and airlines.
Royal Caribbean shares dropped nearly 27%,
Carnival, 19%, United,
Delta, and American Airlines
all down more than 12%.
Also, I know that I kind
of mentioned it in passing,
but I wanna bring it back to the NBA.
Right, last night, essentially
what we ended up seeing
was the NBA postponed a
game between the Utah Jazz
and the Oklahoma City Thunder,
and I mean, this happened
right before tip-off.
Literally, the arena was packed,
and this was reportedly
because one of the players
was being tested for the coronavirus.
Those results were about to come in,
and once they did, we
learned that that player was
Rudy Gobert, and that
he had tested positive.
Now, the quick question around this was,
holy shit, if Rudy has it,
how many other people have it,
not only because you're
talking about someone
who participates in a game
that's all about touching
the same thing over and over,
not only because you have tons of people
in the locker room,
everyone's so close together,
but because on Monday we
saw this guy joking around,
seemingly about the coronavirus,
touching all the mics,
and the recorders, and the table,
right, essentially, like,
ha, ha, fuck the coronavirus,
and apparently, the
coronavirus was like bet.
And in fact, according to
reports, "Jazz players privately
"say that Rudy Gobert had been
careless in the locker room,
"touching other players
and their belongings,"
which may or may not be
the reason why yesterday
one of his teammates, Donovan Mitchell,
also tested positive.
Also, in addition to live
events, we're seeing a number
of movies being postponed,
which I will say,
it's genuinely interesting
that because of this thing
that is scaring everyone,
right, the coronavirus,
it's taking away a ton
of the things that we use
to distract us from how scary
the world can be sometimes.
But to that point, and the
smallest positive thing ever,
unless the power and the internet go out,
the Philip DeFranco Show
will still be here for you.
Made that joke about your
grandmothers yesterday,
and way too many of
you were like, yes, no,
this is not a joke, we agree.
But main point, that's where
we are as of recording.
This is still a developing
situation, of course.
As we've been saying
for a while, you know,
you'll get kind of these updates,
and then a lot will happen at once.
But yeah, I hope you're well.
I also, I hope these videos,
I hope that they're not
causing you to panic, that
it's making you, you know,
concerned, and you're aware,
and you're an informed person,
'cause at the end of the day,
I really hope this is helping.
But yeah, those are the stories.
I'd love, of course, love
to hear your thoughts.
This is the end, and hey, of course,
if you liked today's video,
remember to hit us with a like.
If you're new here, you
don't wanna miss these daily
weekday videos, be sure to
hit that subscribe button.
Also, if you're not 100% Phil-ed in,
you can definitely check
out that brand new,
fantastic podcast I did with Daniel Sloss,
or maybe you missed the
last Philip DeFranco Show,
you wanna catch up.
You can click or tap right
there to watch either of those.
But, with that said, of course, as always,
my name's Philip DeFranco,
you've just been Phil-ed in,
I love your faces, and
I'll see you next time.
- I hope you like this video.
Subscribe if you like it.